Last time we talked, we were on exercise
six, which was about guarded transitions.
Now, let's actually tackle this exercise,
we have to do a couple of things.
Let's go ahead and get started here.
Okay, all right, so
we want to not let the mouse down
transition happen unless
there's less than five tracks.
So we want to limit the number
of drags that the user is doing.
So to do that, we could add
a conditioned to this transition,
which will make it
the car that transition.
So we could say context event, and
if this condition returns true, that means
that this transition is allowed to happen.
It doesn't mean that it will happen,
it means that it's allowed to happen.
So in this case, we want to return
context.drags is less than 5.
Now just to test that this is true,
let's return false over here
just to see what happens.
So when we return false over here,
you'll see that we're not
allowed to drag at all.
So we're not allowed to go from that
idle state to that dragging state.
Let's get rid of that, okay.
Now we're allowed to drag
however many times we want, and
we could see the drag counter is
being kept track of up here, but
we're not updating
the number of drags yet.
So we need to do that over here on entry.
So we'll say entry and
this is going to be an action.
So we take context and
an event and we're going to say,
whenever we enter the state we
want to increment the drags count.
So this sounds like
an assign action to me.
We are going to assign drags to,
we only need the context here,
we can say context.drags + 1 and
return that, okay.
At the bottom here, we're keeping track
of the drags directly on the elements, so
that we could display it on that
top left corner that you saw.
So when we go here, we'll see okay,
we dragged once, you drag twice,
three times, four times,
five times and now we can't drag anymore.
So there you go.
Hopefully that made sense and
now let's actually extract these out.
So we could say,
let's have a new action here.
const countDrags, and
we could move this assign action.
Say that that's countDrags over to entry.
We could do the same thing over here.
We could say that this condition
should be NotMaxDrags.
I'm terrible with naming things,
but that's okay.
const notMaxDrags and we should see
that it works exactly the same.
After five drags,
we can't do any more drags.
Now, conditionals which make up
the guards for the guard at transitions,
these are configurable
in the very bottom here.
So we could say guards and
we will have notMaxDrags.
We will right now it's just
the same as notMaxDrags.
But if you want to test this,
you could easily override this and
say that this is true and this way
it's always going to let you drag.
It will refresh,
maybe not, okay.
So, if that was a string, there we go.
That's going to allow you to configure it
so that you could drag as many times as
you want or you could test it and say,
let's assume that this is always false.
And now you could never drag.
So, this is what guarded
transitions enable or
rather disable you from doing is choosing
the transition when that happens.
And additional points that I want
to make about guarded transitions
is that when you have a garden transition,
you recognize that this transition is
one that might not be able to be taken.
For example, if notMaxDrags is false,
then we have no transition to do.
But let's say that we wants
to define another state.
So we want to say this is,
let's call it draggedout.
Like we've dragged this out for
too long, so this element is
no longer able to be dragged.
And just for now,
we could give this a final state.
This does nothing but it's a really
good indicator of saying, hey,
we've reached our final state and
nothing can happen from here anymore.
What you could do here
is you could specify
this transition on the mouse
down event as an array.
So, what this means, when we specify
more than one transition, so
we could say target dragged
out is that if the first
transition in the array is not taken,
then we keep going down.
So we checked this transition,
we see, can we take this transition.
If so, then we will take it.
And so now let's see how that looks.
So right now we are dragged
out by default and
that's because we're specifying that
as a string which is defined down here.
So let's go ahead and undo that and
now when we drag five times,
It's going to go to the dragged out state,
as you see over here.
And in that state we're no longer allowed
to drag anyway because it's a final state,
nothing else can happen in it.